CONTRIBUTING.MD, before:

# Contributing to OpenCrisisBoard

## Introduction

Thank you for contributing to OpenCrisisBoard! Thanks to selfless people like you, OpenCrisisBoard can help those in need.

Following the guidelines outlined in this document makes contributing that much simpler, and saves everybody time.

OpenCrisisBoard is an open-sourced project and is always in need of helpful contributions. There are many ways to contribute, such as by submitting a bug report or feature request, writing documentation, or writing code to fix a bug or implement a feature request and submitting a pull request.

## Ways to Contribute

Here are some useful links if you are looking to contribute:

- Bugs and feature requests can be found in the issues tab: [Issues](<link_to_issues>)
- Create an issue: [Create an issue](<link_to_create_issue>)
- Other important documentation about OpenCrisisBoard can be found in the project wiki: [Project Wiki](<link_to_wiki>)

If you'd like to fix a bug or pick up a feature request, please read the below guide on how to do that.

## Code Contributions (Getting Started Guide)

If you are unfamiliar with contributing to open-source software, feel free to familiarize yourself with the process by reading [this guide](https://codeburst.io/a-step-by-step-guide-to-making-your-first-github-contribution-5302260a2940). This process is also outlined below.

Start by picking an issue to work on and assigning yourself [(Issues)](<link_to_issues>). If you don't understand what the issue is asking for, feel free to get in touch with us! You can join our slack here: [Slack](<link_to_slack_invite>). You can also feel free to comment on the issue.

Once you have an idea of what you're doing:

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone the repository
3. Create a new branch for your bug fix/feature. Name your branch `bug/issue-name` or `feature/issue-name` for organizational purposes.
4. Make your necessary changes and commit them. (TBD for notes on squashing commits here)
5. Push your branches to Github.
6. Submit a pull request for review. [Submit a pull request](<link_to_submit_PR>)

## Code style and commit messages

Process TBD

## Code review process

Process TBD

## Particularly Small Contributions

Process TBD

## How to file a quality bug report

Process TBD

## How to file a quality feature request

Process TBD

# Community

OpenCrisisBoard has a few community outlets. Feel free to join them to chat with others and to learn more about the project:
- [Slack](<link_to_slack_invite>)
- [HelpWithCovid posting](https://helpwithcovid.com/projects/133)
- More TBD (Social media, etc)

**Credits to Nayafia for providing the template for this contribution guide: https://github.com/nayafia/contributing-template

Commit message:

fill in the quality bug report section

CONTRIBUTING.MD, after:

# Contributing to OpenCrisisBoard

## Introduction

Thank you for contributing to OpenCrisisBoard! Thanks to selfless people like you, OpenCrisisBoard can help those in need.

Following the guidelines outlined in this document makes contributing that much simpler, and saves everybody time.

OpenCrisisBoard is an open-sourced project and is always in need of helpful contributions. There are many ways to contribute, such as by submitting a bug report or feature request, writing documentation, or writing code to fix a bug or implement a feature request and submitting a pull request.

## Ways to Contribute

Here are some useful links if you are looking to contribute:

- Bugs and feature requests can be found in the issues tab: [Issues](<link_to_issues>)
- Create an issue: [Create an issue](<link_to_create_issue>)
- Other important documentation about OpenCrisisBoard can be found in the project wiki: [Project Wiki](<link_to_wiki>)

If you'd like to fix a bug or pick up a feature request, please read the below guide on how to do that.

## Code Contributions (Getting Started Guide)

If you are unfamiliar with contributing to open-source software, feel free to familiarize yourself with the process by reading [this guide](https://codeburst.io/a-step-by-step-guide-to-making-your-first-github-contribution-5302260a2940). This process is also outlined below.

Start by picking an issue to work on and assigning yourself [(Issues)](<link_to_issues>). If you don't understand what the issue is asking for, feel free to get in touch with us! You can join our slack here: [Slack](<link_to_slack_invite>). You can also feel free to comment on the issue.

Once you have an idea of what you're doing:

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone the repository
3. Create a new branch for your bug fix/feature. Name your branch `bug/issue-name` or `feature/issue-name` for organizational purposes.
4. Make your necessary changes and commit them. (TBD for notes on squashing commits here)
5. Push your branches to Github.
6. Submit a pull request for review. [Submit a pull request](<link_to_submit_PR>)

## Code style and commit messages

Process TBD

## Code review process

Process TBD

## Particularly Small Contributions

Process TBD

## How to file a quality bug report

There are a few key parts to a helpful bug report:

- Relevant information such as version numbers, server environments, code files affected, etc
- Detailed steps to reproduce it: provide details about what you were doing when you found the bug
- Screenshots of incorrect output and error dumps

## How to file a quality feature request

Process TBD

# Community

OpenCrisisBoard has a few community outlets. Feel free to join them to chat with others and to learn more about the project:
- [Slack](<link_to_slack_invite>)
- [HelpWithCovid posting](https://helpwithcovid.com/projects/133)
- More TBD (Social media, etc)

**Credits to Nayafia for providing the template used to write this contribution guide: [See it here if you need to write your own!](https://github.com/nayafia/contributing-template)
